Update changelog (#3719)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.29.0.md

<h3>New features since last release</h3>

<h4>Pulse programming 🔊</h4>

* Support for creating pulse-based circuits that describe evolution under a time-dependent

>   Hamiltonian has now been added, as well as the ability to execute these

Author: ```suggestion
  Hamiltonian has now been added, as well as the ability to execute and differentiate these
```

  pulse-based circuits on simulator.
  [(#3586)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3586)
  [(#3617)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3617)
  [(#3645)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3645)
  [(#3706)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3706)
  [(#3730)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3730)

  A time-dependent Hamiltonian can be created using `qml.ParametrizedHamiltonian`, which 
  holds information representing a linear combination of operators
  with parametrized coefficents and can be constructed as follows:

>   ```pycon
>   f1 = lambda p, t: p * np.sin(t) * (t - 1)
>   f2 = lambda p, t: p[0] * np.cos(p[1]* t ** 2)

Author: ```suggestion
  ```pycon
  from jax import numpy as jnp
  
  f1 = lambda p, t: p * jnp.sin(t) * (t - 1)
  f2 = lambda p, t: p[0] * jnp.cos(p[1]* t ** 2)
```

  XX = qml.PauliX(1) @ qml.PauliX(1)
  YY = qml.PauliY(0) @ qml.PauliY(0)
  ZZ = qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1)

  H =  2 * XX + f1 * YY + f2 * ZZ
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> H
  ParametrizedHamiltonian: terms=3

>   >>> params = [1.2, [2.3, 3.4]]

Author: ```suggestion
  >>> params = [jnp.array(1.2), jnp.array([2.3, 3.4])]
```

  >>> H(params, t=0.5)

>   (2*(PauliX(wires=[1]) @ PauliX(wires=[1]))) + ((-0.2876553535461426*(PauliY(wires=[0]) @ PauliY(wires=[0]))) + (1.5179612636566162*(PauliZ(wires=[0]) @ PauliZ(wires=[1]))))

Author: ```suggestion
  (2*(PauliX(wires=[1]) @ PauliX(wires=[1]))) + ((-0.2876553535461426*(PauliY(wires=[0]) @ PauliY(wires=[0]))) + (1.5179612636566162*(PauliZ(wires=[0]) @ PauliZ(wires=[1]))))
```

  with parametrized coefficents and can be constructed as follows:

  ```pycon
  from jax import numpy as jnp
  
  f1 = lambda p, t: p * jnp.sin(t) * (t - 1)
  f2 = lambda p, t: p[0] * jnp.cos(p[1]* t ** 2)

  XX = qml.PauliX(1) @ qml.PauliX(1)
  YY = qml.PauliY(0) @ qml.PauliY(0)
  ZZ = qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1)

  H =  2 * XX + f1 * YY + f2 * ZZ
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> H
  ParametrizedHamiltonian: terms=3
  >>> params = [jnp.array(1.2), jnp.array([2.3, 3.4])]
  >>> H(params, t=0.5)
  (2*(PauliX(wires=[1]) @ PauliX(wires=[1]))) + ((-0.2876553535461426*(PauliY(wires=[0]) @ PauliY(wires=[0]))) + (1.5179612636566162*(PauliZ(wires=[0]) @ PauliZ(wires=[1]))))
  ```

  The time-dependent Hamiltonian can be used within a circuit with `qml.evolve`:

  ```python
  def pulse_circuit(params, time):
      qml.Hadamard(0)
      qml.evolve(H)(params, time)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliX(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1))
  ```

  Pulse-based circuits can be executed on the `default.qubit` simulator using JAX as an interface:

  ```pycon
  >>> dev = dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  >>> qnode = qml.QNode(pulse_circuit, dev, interface="jax")
  >>> qnode(params, time=0.5)

>   Array(-0.5383645, dtype=float32)
>   >>> jax.grad(qnode)(params, time=0.5)
>   [Array(-4.980595e-09, dtype=float32),
>    [Array(-0.7838294, dtype=float32, weak_type=True),
>     Array(0.07700024, dtype=float32, weak_type=True)]]

Author: ```suggestion
  Array(-0.5441851, dtype=float32)
  >>> jax.grad(qnode)(params, time=0.5)
  [Array(-0.0096471, dtype=float32),
   Array([-0.7750168 ,  0.07650781], dtype=float32)]
```
@Qottmann - these differences seem nontrivial :thinking: Any idea why? The parameters are the same as before.

  ```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

  Check out the [qml.pulse](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/latest/code/qml_pulse.html) documentation
  page for more details!

```

<h4>Special unitary operation 🌞</h4>

* A new operation `qml.SpecialUnitary` has been added, providing access to an arbitrary
  unitary gate via a parametrization in the Pauli basis.
  [(#3650)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3650)
  [(#3674)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3674)

>   `qml.SpecialUnitary` creates a unitary that is a linear combination of all possible Pauli words in lexicographical order — except for the identity operator — for `num_wires` wires, of which there are `4**num_wires - 1`. As its first argument, it takes a list of `4**num_wires - 1` parameters that are the coefficients of the linear combination. 

Author: ```suggestion
  `qml.SpecialUnitary` creates a unitary that is a linear combination of all possible Pauli words in lexicographical order — except for the identity operator — for `num_wires` wires, of which there are `4**num_wires - 1`. As its first argument,
  `qml.SpecialUnitary` takes a list of `4**num_wires - 1` parameters that are the coefficients of the linear combination. 
```

<h3>New features since last release</h3>

<h4>Pulse programming 🔊</h4>

* Support for creating pulse-based circuits that describe evolution under a time-dependent
  Hamiltonian has now been added, as well as the ability to execute and differentiate these
  pulse-based circuits on simulator.
  [(#3586)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3586)
  [(#3617)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3617)
  [(#3645)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3645)
  [(#3706)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3706)
  [(#3730)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3730)

  A time-dependent Hamiltonian can be created using `qml.ParametrizedHamiltonian`, which 
  holds information representing a linear combination of operators
  with parametrized coefficents and can be constructed as follows:

  ```pycon
  from jax import numpy as jnp
  
  f1 = lambda p, t: p * jnp.sin(t) * (t - 1)
  f2 = lambda p, t: p[0] * jnp.cos(p[1]* t ** 2)

  XX = qml.PauliX(1) @ qml.PauliX(1)
  YY = qml.PauliY(0) @ qml.PauliY(0)
  ZZ = qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1)

  H =  2 * XX + f1 * YY + f2 * ZZ
  ```

>   ```pycon
>   >>> H
>   ParametrizedHamiltonian: terms=3
>   >>> params = [jnp.array(1.2), jnp.array([2.3, 3.4])]
>   >>> H(params, t=0.5)
>   (2*(PauliX(wires=[1]) @ PauliX(wires=[1]))) + ((-0.2876553535461426*(PauliY(wires=[0]) @ PauliY(wires=[0]))) + (1.5179612636566162*(PauliZ(wires=[0]) @ PauliZ(wires=[1]))))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```pycon
  >>> H
  ParametrizedHamiltonian: terms=3
  >>> p1 = jnp.array(1.2)
  >>> p2 = jnp.array([2.3, 3.4])
  >>> H((p1, p2), t=0.5)
  (2*(PauliX(wires=[1]) @ PauliX(wires=[1]))) + ((-0.2876553535461426*(PauliY(wires=[0]) @ PauliY(wires=[0]))) + (1.5179612636566162*(PauliZ(wires=[0]) @ PauliZ(wires=[1]))))
```

I think this way the correspondence of the parameters to the callables is more self-evident

  ```

  The time-dependent Hamiltonian can be used within a circuit with `qml.evolve`:

  ```python
  def pulse_circuit(params, time):
      qml.Hadamard(0)
      qml.evolve(H)(params, time)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliX(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1))
  ```

  Pulse-based circuits can be executed on the `default.qubit` simulator using JAX as an interface:

>   ```pycon
>   >>> dev = dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
>   >>> qnode = qml.QNode(pulse_circuit, dev, interface="jax")
>   >>> qnode(params, time=0.5)
>   Array(-0.5441851, dtype=float32)
>   >>> jax.grad(qnode)(params, time=0.5)
>   [Array(-0.0096471, dtype=float32),
>    Array([-0.7750168 ,  0.07650781], dtype=float32)]
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```pycon
  >>> dev = dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  >>> qnode = qml.QNode(pulse_circuit, dev, interface="jax")
  >>> params = (p1, p2)
  >>> qnode(params, time=0.5)
  Array(-0.5441851, dtype=float32)
  >>> jax.grad(qnode)(params, time=0.5)
  [Array(-0.0096471, dtype=float32),
   Array([-0.7750168 ,  0.07650781], dtype=float32)]
  ```
```
to be consistent with the change above

  A time-dependent Hamiltonian can be created using `qml.ParametrizedHamiltonian`, which 
  holds information representing a linear combination of operators
  with parametrized coefficents and can be constructed as follows:

  ```pycon
  from jax import numpy as jnp
  
  f1 = lambda p, t: p * jnp.sin(t) * (t - 1)
  f2 = lambda p, t: p[0] * jnp.cos(p[1]* t ** 2)

  XX = qml.PauliX(1) @ qml.PauliX(1)
  YY = qml.PauliY(0) @ qml.PauliY(0)
  ZZ = qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1)

  H =  2 * XX + f1 * YY + f2 * ZZ
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> H
  ParametrizedHamiltonian: terms=3
  >>> p1 = jnp.array(1.2)
  >>> p2 = jnp.array([2.3, 3.4])
  >>> H((p1, p2), t=0.5)
  (2*(PauliX(wires=[1]) @ PauliX(wires=[1]))) + ((-0.2876553535461426*(PauliY(wires=[0]) @ PauliY(wires=[0]))) + (1.5179612636566162*(PauliZ(wires=[0]) @ PauliZ(wires=[1]))))
  ```

  The time-dependent Hamiltonian can be used within a circuit with `qml.evolve`:

  ```python
  def pulse_circuit(params, time):
      qml.Hadamard(0)
      qml.evolve(H)(params, time)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliX(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1))
  ```

  Pulse-based circuits can be executed on the `default.qubit` simulator using JAX as an interface:

>   ```pycon

Reviewer: somehow doesnt render below, I dont see why not though

>   ```pycon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Either remove this add missing triple ` after code block

>   ```pycon
>   >>> dev = dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
>   >>> qnode = qml.QNode(pulse_circuit, dev, interface="jax")
>   >>> params = (p1, p2)
>   >>> qnode(params, time=0.5)
>   Array(-0.5441851, dtype=float32)
>   >>> jax.grad(qnode)(params, time=0.5)
>   [Array(-0.0096471, dtype=float32),
>    Array([-0.7750168 ,  0.07650781], dtype=float32)]
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ```pycon
  >>> dev = dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  >>> qnode = qml.QNode(pulse_circuit, dev, interface="jax")
  >>> params = (p1, p2)
  >>> qnode(params, time=0.5)
  Array(-0.5441851, dtype=float32)
  >>> jax.grad(qnode)(params, time=0.5)
  [Array(-0.0096471, dtype=float32),
   Array([-0.7750168 ,  0.07650781], dtype=float32)]
  ```
```

  This operation can be differentiated with hardware-compatible methods like parameter shifts
  and it supports parameter broadcasting/batching, but not both at the same time.

<h4>Always differentiable 📈</h4>

> * The Hadamard test gradient transform is now available via `qml.gradients.hadamard_grad`. The gradient transform 
>   `qml.gradients.hadamard_grad` is now registered as a differentiation method for `QNode`s.

Author: ```suggestion
* The Hadamard test gradient transform is now available via `qml.gradients.hadamard_grad`. This transform 
   is also available as a differentiation method within `QNode`s.
```

>   [#3625](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3625)
>   [#3736](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3736)

Author: ```suggestion
  [(#3625)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3625)
  [(#3736)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3736)
```

  >>> DeviceArray([[0.0, 0.0, 0.3650435], [0.0, 0.0, -0.3650435]], dtype=float32)
  ```

* The kernel matrix utility functions in `qml.kernels` are now autodifferentiation-compatible.
  In addition they support batching, for example for quantum kernel execution with shot vectors.
  [(#3742)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3742)

  In addition to the autodifferentiation support in JAX, Autograd, Tensorflow and PyTorch,
  optional batching was added, allowing for the following:
  
  ```python
  dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=2, shots=(100, 100))
  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit(x1, x2):
      qml.templates.AngleEmbedding(x1, wires=dev.wires)
      qml.adjoint(qml.templates.AngleEmbedding)(x2, wires=dev.wires)
      return qml.probs(wires=dev.wires)

>   kernel = lambda x1, x2: circuit(x1, x2)[:, 0]

Author: ```suggestion
  kernel = lambda x1, x2: circuit(x1, x2)
```

>   kernel = lambda x1, x2: circuit(x1, x2)[:, 0]
>   ```
> 
>   Note that we extract the first probability vector entry for both
>   evaluations using 100 shots each.
>   We can then compute the kernel matrix on a set of 4 (random) feature
>   vectors `X` but using two sets of 100 shots each via
> 
>   ```pycon
>   >>> X = np.random.random((4, 2))
>   >>> qml.kernels.square_kernel_matrix(X, kernel)

Author: ```suggestion
  kernel = lambda x1, x2: circuit(x1, x2)
  ```

  Note that we extract the first probability vector entry for both
  evaluations using 100 shots each.
  We can then compute the kernel matrix on a set of 4 (random) feature
  vectors `X` but using two sets of 100 shots each via

  ```pycon
  >>> X = np.random.random((4, 2))
  >>> qml.kernels.square_kernel_matrix(X, kernel)[:, 0]
```

>   >>> qml.kernels.square_kernel_matrix(X, kernel)

Author: ```suggestion
  >>> qml.kernels.square_kernel_matrix(X, kernel)[:, 0]
```
